---
date: 2023-05-04
tags:
  - kubernetes
  - mlops
featured: true
authors:
  - ronaldosaheki
slug: april23-links
title: 2023 April links
subTitle: DevOps, Labs, MLOps, DataScience, Linux and Programming links.
# Truegit allows viewer of your blog to be able to suggest changes to it. To disable that, use this flag.
#disableSuggestEdit: true
#bannerImage: ./download.jpeg
---

# 2023 May Links

## Kubernetes v1.27 Update


First, one update of note is that the newer image registry, registry.k8s.io, is replacing k8s.gcr.io. This change is something that’s been on the radar for a while, but registry.k8s.io is now the official default registry in v1.27.

The release notes also highlight that the SeccompDefault feature graduated to stable. This capability allows kubelet to run a stronger set of security defaults on a per-node basis. Another graduated feature is mutable scheduling directives for Jobs, which has reached GA. This enables more nuanced controls over parallel jobs.

The release announcement also cites some other other enhancements:

- DownwardAPIHugePages graduates to stable
- Pod Scheduling Readiness goes to beta
- Node log access via Kubernetes API
- ReadWriteOncePod PersistentVolume access mode goes to beta
- Respect PodTopologySpread after rolling upgrades
- Faster SELinux volume relabeling using mounts
- Robust VolumeManager reconstruction goes to beta
- Mutable Pod Scheduling Directives goes to beta
- Diving Deeper Into Alpha Features

While the above topline themes may interest some users, Grzywinski notes that some other advancements may be more exciting for developers working with Kubernetes.

For example, he’s excited about in-place vertical pod autoscaling, which has reached an alpha state. This feature allows you to scale the request and limit numbers when you deploy a pod. “This can help scale the resource requests of a pod based on usage in place without having to redeploy a pod or scale horizontally,” explains Grzywinski. In-place vertical pod autoscaling could bring more intelligent capacity planning to developers packing their nodes and running larger clusters.

Although there is still some debate on the approach, Grzywinski highlights the growing interest in using sidecars. And Kubernetes v1.27 brings a way to define sidecars as a specific container type. “Having a mechanism by which kublet treats them differently to support that usage pattern will be helpful for a lot of people,” he says.

Lastly, Grzywinski mentions the new ReadWriteOnce storage access method, which restricts storage volumes to only be accessible by one pod at a time. Storage primitives and Persistent Volumes have come a long way, and these new features will further enable persistent storage on Kubernetes. “There’s been a lot of work done to get storage on Kubernetes to a point where it’s production safe,” says Grzywinski.